Greetings, brothers and sisters, and welcome to this update on the global COVID-19 pandemic.
On behalf of the governing body, I want to tell you how encouraged we are when we hear
about your endurance through these difficult times.
In this update, I'd like to speak to you parents who are raising children.
Although all of us have had to stay vigilant to protect ourselves and others, you dear
parents have carried a particularly heavy load.
We can only imagine the deep concern you've had for your young children and teens during
the pandemic.
You worry about their physical safety and their education?
You've also been concerned about the emotional impact of physical distancing for many months
from other children, grandparents, relatives, and the congregation.
And you've handled all of this while you work to provide for them and keep up your family's
spiritual routine.
That's a lot on your shoulders.
Remember that the prophecy in 2 Timothy chapter 3 tells us that in the last days there
would be critical times hard to deal with.
So the fact that Satan is attacking the family unit is no surprise to you parents.
The surprise, however, may be when the attack takes an unexpected form, or perhaps feels
like many attacks coming all at once.
That's what the pandemic has been for many of you.
Now I'm going to say something that you already know.
Your hover guard and Jesus know how you feel.
There are an example leaves no doubt.
For instance, there were times when Jehovah stepped in to protect his son when he was on
the earth.
He first carefully entrusted Jesus to the care of loving parents.
And when Herod wanted to kill Jesus as a child, Jehovah told Joseph and Mary to flee
to Egypt until the threat passed.
He could say it was like an extended lockdown that kept them away from family and friends
for some time.
Jesus experienced what is really like to grow up as a child in a wicked world.
He knows the pressures and the dangers.
It's no wonder that He took a special interest in children during His ministry.
And today He shares your deep concern for your children.
Would your Christian parents have other good examples to look to?
It's the example of our brothers and sisters who live in areas that have been hit hard
by the pandemic.
More recently, this has been the case in India and Brazil.
We spoke to parents in those lands and asked them how this has affected their families
and in particular, their children.
For a child, it's been a whole year without being able to play with other children.
So they really miss being with their friends.
A big challenge that parents have now is coming up with something fun for them to do as
a family so that their child doesn't feel upset or sad.
They feel anxious to go out and it's very challenging for us to keep them motivated
to stay inside.
Our family was infected with COVID-19.
It was physically and emotionally very stressful for all of us.
We are not able to meet the friends at the Kingdom Hall anymore.
Neither can we see our relatives, so the kids, they're getting really bored.
Right after the pandemic began, we got the news that Denise had cancer.
Of course, one of our main concerns was our daughter.
She really became anxious about what was going to happen to her mom.
Perhaps you can sympathize with some of the challenges parents in India and Brazil are facing.
We know it's not been easy for parents and families during the pandemic.
But with every trial, there are also opportunities to remain loyal to Jehovah and to grow spiritually.
For example, many parents have said that they've had more time with their children
to do what it says at Deuteronomy 6 verses 6 and 7.
These words that I am commanding you today must be on your heart.
And you must inculcate them in your sons and speak of them when you sit in your house
and when you walk on the road and when you lie down and when you get up.
Many of us have a more time to sit in our house during the pandemic, whether we wanted to or not.
But if this was your circumstance, hopefully you make good use of the opportunity.
Jehovah gave the command to Israel because he knew that spiritually strong families would be happy families.
The same is true today.
When your family stays close to Jehovah, you bring up blessing to yourself and your congregation.
But you parents are not just caring for your children's spiritual needs.
You have spiritual needs too.
Jehovah's command in Deuteronomy 6 said that Israelite parents must have his words on their heart.
Notice the benefit you gain when you make time for your spirituality.
Proverbs 20 and verse 7 explains it this way.
The righteous one is walking in his integrity.
Happy are his children who come after him.
So righteous parents make for happy children.
Parents, we know that you know these things.
We commend you for what you're doing and we're praying for Jehovah's Holy Spirit to give you strength even when you feel tired out.
Our spiritual routine is even more important when we're being tested.
The families we met from India and Brazil were aware of this too.
They shared what they've done to adapt their spiritual routine to meet the challenge of the pandemic.
We go out in the ministry together as a family much more often than we did before.
Saturday is a special day for us.
We work together as a family every Saturday morning and we make plans with other families
who are also close friends of our children.
We always have a very enjoyable time.
When we conduct our Bible studies we have them sit in the kids watch us closely
and they learn from us.
Family worship has played a very important role.
It's a relaxed atmosphere in which we can have a good time.
One of the games we play is you name a Bible character
and the next person has to come up with someone whose name starts with the last letter of the name that was just said.
This way the kids are getting to know new Bible characters
and they're learning a lot about them.
One of our projects is a model of Noah's Ark.
Our kids have learned almost all the original songs.
We've played a few games using some of the activities on JW.org.
We met some models of Bible accounts,
be enacted Bible seeds and rule plays of Bible characters.
It was one time that we wrapped our son in toilet paper and he was Lazarus.
And we have considered timely articles appearing on JW.org.
We also did a project on the metal image of Daniel's prophecy.
Our son enjoys family worship because we do things that he likes,
something that holds his attention and it's fun.
And seeing them happy makes us happy.
All this has got us close to each other and it also helps us to draw closer to each other.
With JW's help we can get through anything.
Perhaps something those families are doing
can work or is already working for your family.
Let's review some suggestions that can help your family's spiritual routine.
For families with young children, dramatize Bible scenes.
Your children may like to dress up and make props
to bring the account to life and remember the lessons.
And the good thing is you don't need expensive props to make this interesting.
Play memory games.
This could be based on recent points from the meetings
or something they've been reading or watching on JW Broadcasting.
Try a JW.org activity for children together.
These are under the Bible Teaching section of the website.
But if you have young children, I suspect you've been there before.
And here are some ideas for families with teens.
Practice what if situations.
Perhaps let your teen choose a situation they're concerned about.
Talk about goals. These can be short-term or long-term goals.
Let your teen tell why they chose the goal.
And what steps they feel will help them reach it.
Read or watch a life story.
Again, let your teen choose a life story of someone they're interested in.
Remember though, that you don't have to use every suggestion.
Talk to your family, pray about it, and try what you think can make a difference for you.
And of course, there's nothing wrong with watching JW Broadcasting during a family worship.
After all, that's why we're here.
But when you do, try to make it more than just watching TV.
Take time to talk about the programmers of family.
Either at the end of the broadcast or after each segment.
Those are the suggestions.
Now here are the necessities for your family.
Pray together every day.
Try to include the feelings and concerns of each family member.
Keep attending the meetings.
Help each other to pay attention and participate.
Unlike being in the kingdom hall, we may have many distractions when we attend from home.
Share in the ministry together.
As the pandemic continues to limit how we do our preaching work,
talk about the different forms of the ministry you can do,
and how each family member feels about them.
Listen and encourage everyone to do their best.
Finally, we urge your parents to keep doing what you already know is vital.
Be alert for signs that your children are struggling with negative emotions or stress.
If you sense that they are, please read the article,
help your children cope with stress.
It's in the awake of July 22, 1993, pages 10 and 11.
There you'll find wonderful suggestions on what you can do.
Jehovah loves your family.
He knows what you're contending with, and he wants to help you.
The pandemic has been just one of many tests we'll face in the last days.
Now that's an ornament to discourage you.
It's just reality.
But with Jehovah's help, your family can come out of each test spiritually stronger
and more prepared to face what's ahead.
Jeremiah chapter 17 gives us this beautiful assurance in verse 7.
Blessed is the man who puts his trust in Jehovah, whose confidence is in Jehovah.
And verse 8 concludes saying,
And in the year of drought, he will not be anxious nor will he quit producing fruit.
Of course, we also want these tests to end, and they will.
Well, when you look back at the pandemic from the new world,
you will see momentary and light, even if it doesn't seem so now.
In the meantime, we continue to pray for all of you,
parents, children, and all in our worldwide spiritual family.
May Jehovah bless your love and endurance.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.